In this lesson, we have an independent work with you. It is necessary to damage the character.
If the line trace is successful, we can get the actor from the hit result
and damage it using the take damage function. In general, the task is not very difficult.
The only thing is, figure it out on your own how to get the actor to whom we need to inflict damage.
So let's get started. We calculate the parameters trace start, transe end, hit.
And in case of hitting any actor, the bBlockingHit variable will equal true.
And we can harm the actor in this thread. For this, let's create a function called MakeDamage
and pass the HitResult structure there. We create this function at the bottom of our class.
And add the MakeDamage declaration to the .h file. Let's get the actor that we actually fell into.
We can get it from the HitResult structure. We create a local variable. Let's call it DamagedActor.
And let's see if the function we need is in the HitResult structure. It's called GetActor.
This function returns a pointer to the actor in case of a successful hit test
with one of its collision components. Checking the pointer to nullptr.
If the pointer is null, then we exit the MakeDamage function and one of the ways to harm the actor
is to call the TakeDamage function on it. We have already used it in this course.
The first parameter is the amount of damage. Let's create a variable stub.
We'll add it a bit later as a property. The second parameter is the damage event.
Let's just pass in an empty constructor. We don't need any additional information now.
The third parameter is a pointer to the controller responsible for this damage. We created
the GetPlayerController function a little earlier, so we can use it. The last parameter is
the actor who directly caused the damage. This is our weapon, that is, we pass a pointer to the current object - this.
Create property DamageAmount in .h file. Float variable.
By default, let this weapon take 10 health points away.
Copying the macro with property. Everything is ready for us. Let's build.
Let's check our logic.
We shoot at the character, we hit and 10 points of health begin to decrease, as a result the character died.
Let's restart and check one thing: open the console, type ShowCollision.
Collisions appeared, let's kill the enemy character.
The collision capsule remains, we cannot go through it, it blocks our path until the
actor is completely destroyed. It looks like a bug, especially since
we will not see a collision in the game , so there will be an invisible obstacle. Let's fix it up.
If the character dies, we need to disable any collisions for the capsule component.
Let's include the header file where the capsule component is located.
The character function that returns a pointer to the capsule component is called GetCapsuleComponent. No surprises here.
We'll use a function called SetCollisionResponseToAllChannels.
This function sets the collision response uniform for all channels.
It has one argument of type ECollisionResponse. This is an enum. Let's hit f12 on this type.
We have already seen this value in the blueprint: ignore, overlap, block. There is also a Max element.
This is a purely technical element by which the number of elements in an enum is known. A peculiar programming trick.
Set the response for all channels to ignore and start the editor. Let's check.
Launch, open the console. We enter ShowCollision, we kill our opponent.
The capsule remained, but we calmly pass through it.
And also the weapon of the character who died is not deleted. But what to do about it, let's decide a little later in this section.